- The file system can be a dangerous place
for applications, and bad actors
love to leverage it to find exploits.
Attacks of the file system can be relatively easy
to exploit, because it's a great
learning arena for new attackers.
Furthermore, the results can be devastating to the systems.
As we look at the risk management flow,
the ease of attack in conjunction
with the damage potential, should yield
a clear need to take these seriously.
There are several areas we need to focus on
with file systems and file input and output.
The first we will discuss is often more infrastructure
focused, but in a devops world, the line is very blurred.
You need to ensure your application is run
in a user process that is controlled.
You should only provide access to the file system
for that user that the application needs in order to run.
This is often considered in server side application,
especially in the Linux world, but the same cannot be said
for desktop or mobile applications.
While sandboxing environments help,
the fact is that the developer
still needs to only allow the application
to read and write from a finite location
on the file system, and the process
needs to only have that same access.
When an application needs to read
from the file system, for its behavior,
consider using read-only files in these cases.
Attackers love to modify files that applications need
to operate, in an attempt to exploit the application.
By leveraging read-only files or media,
the attacker has less opportunity for attack.
Another important attack vector is a run file upload.
When systems allow file uploads,
it becomes an easy way to impact the system as a whole.
The first scenario is a system that
parses a file that a user uploads.
An attacker can inject malicious data
that forces data leakage, unexpected operations,
or simply cause crashes, making the system unavailable.
The situation is worse if the contents
are stored on a remote system or database.
The mitigation for this attack is one
that we have discussed, and that is input validation.
The system should not trust the data
in the file without first inspecting it
for malicious behavior, based on how the data is consumed.
Another scenario is infected file upload.
While this generally is an infrastructure concern,
developers need to be aware of the scenario
in order to engage the infrastructure teams.
The attack is again easy to exploit.
The system allows file upload, so the attacker
embeds some form of malware into that upload.
The fix for this is as simple as providing
a sandboxed area for intermediate uploads.
The upload process should write the file,
and then trigger a malware scan.
Once the file is determined clean,
another process can move it to its final location,
and so our theme continues.
Never trust what your users provide you.
Provide as much isolation as you can,
and never provide more trust than is absolutely necessary.